### Live Social Media Web Project
***

#### Objective

This was completed through the final course at The Tech Academy programming boot camp where students are given the opportunity to participate in a live project. For my project I was put on a team that was assigned to develop the front-end features for a client's social media website called Bewander. Bewander can be described as a social networking site for people interested in travel that are in search of new destinations and making connections with other travelers.

#### Steps Taken

Part of the project was to gain experience working with the Scrum methodology of Agile project management. Students are to complete at least two week-long sprints, with daily stand-up meetings and a retrospective for the week. I worked on a team with two other students that were working remotely. We were each assigned user stories from the backlog and used Microsoft’s Team Foundation Server for the version control and project management. Before tackling any of the tasks, however, it was necessary to familiarize yourself with the code base and architecture of the application. This can be a large hurdle to overcome initially depending on the size and complexity of the application, but after perusing the models and views and clarifying my questions with the instructor acting as Scrum Master I was able to remove my roadblocks and develop my user stories.

#### The Result

At the end of the project I successfully added several new features. I was able to add a tooltip that appears to users when hovering their mouse over the profile picture of a suggested friend that explains the reason the connection is suggested. You can see screenshots of the tooltip shown in the [friendlist](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/suggested_friends_friendlist_tooltip.jpg) and [travelogue](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/suggested_friends_friendlist_tooltip.jpg), and the code [here](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/suggested_friends_tooltip_code.JPG). I sorted the posts by their “like” count in both the [travel photos]( /Projects/C%23/Bewander/sorted_travel_photos.JPG) and [travelogue](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/sorted_travelogue.JPG) pages. Code for the travelogue is in the [newsfeed](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/sorted_travelogue_code.JPG) while the code for the travel photos is in the [controller](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/sorted_travel_photos_postscontroller_code.JPG) and [viewmodel](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/sorted_travel_photos_viewmodel_code.JPG). I also implemented the [comment modal](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/comment_modal.JPG) for posts but did not have enough time to complete the full functionality. Code for the CSS is [here](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/comment_modal_CSS.JPG) while the CSHTML code can be found [here](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/comment_modal_code.JPG) and [here](/Projects/C%23/Bewander/comment_modal_code2.JPG). I really enjoyed getting first-hand experience working with the scrum methodology. Scrum really makes development efficient by breaking work down into manageable tasks and frequently evaluating the progress made so the project planning can be dynamic and adjusted accordingly. One struggle I came across during this project was working with the many partial views. Partial views are a great way to break up a large view for a web page into smaller components. This allows you to reuse smaller view elements and therefore reduce their duplication as the partial view is simply rendered by calling it into the parent view. When you have many view elements being rendered this way, however, it can be confusing to figure out how all the components piece together and interact.

[Return to portfolio](https://github.com/zfregin/portfolio)
