### Restaurant Ordering Web App
***

#### Objective

Yet another pizza restaurant project, however this time the focus was on the back-end and storing submitted orders to a local database for later review and order management. Because the goal was to learn the multitier architecture that separates functions between a presentation tier, domain logic tier, and data storage tier, the front-end for the web page was kept very basic.

#### Steps Taken

A best practice that ensures separation of concerns is to implement a Data Transfer Object that will carry the data between processes. The first step was to setup the database that will be storing all the order data. I then set up the entity data model in the persistence layer and connected it to the database. After ensuring the connection was valid I set up the enumerations in the DTO layer that will be mapped to the database in the persistence layer. To implement the functionality between layers I created basic layouts of the order creation functions in each layer that would be handling the order data from the DTO. The data submitted by users is passed from the presentation layer down to the domain layer and finally down to the persistence layer to be saved to the database all via the DTO. Next, I created the front-end in the presentation layer using Bootstrap and wired it to the domain layer so that business logic such as price calculations can be performed and added to the order DTO. In order to perform those calculations, I added a price lookup table to the persistence layer database that stores all of the pricing figures for the pizza options and then went back to the domain layer and created the cost calculation methods that call on those figures. With the pricing complete I went back to the presentation layer and added validation to the user inputs. The final task after completing all the order functionality was to implement the Order Management page that enables the restaurant to review and manage submitted orders. I did this by retrieving all the orders from the database and converting them into a list of DTOs that I could then display in a GridView. Adding a complete button next to each item in the table then enables the restaurant user to change the completion status of the order and remove it from the view of orders being displayed on the Order Management webpage.

#### The Result

I learned quite a bit from this project and it was really nice to produce a full-stack application. Gaining experience with DTOs and practicing separation of concerns is very important because this skill enables you to keep functionality loosely coupled. This means that separate functionalities can then be unit tested for optimization and to find any problems. This loose coupling also makes it possible to alter or even completely replace a given tier of the architecture without impacting the functionality of the other layers. This is key to taking a maintenance-driven approach to development that plans for changes and improvements to the application throughout its lifetime. For simplicity of the project, however, there are still some aspects of this application that do not align with the maintenance-driven approach. One example is that it is typically better to have all dependencies pointed towards the domain layer, while in this project I have the domain pointed towards the persistence layer. A second example is the use of the price lookup table is called with each order. In real enterprise use it would be better to have this information periodically requested from the database and cached locally for operation use to keep server overhead down. Another more obvious limitation of the application is it only allows for one pizza per order, but implementing some relational database tables would resolve this. The Order Management page should also be private via intranet or user authentication as this information should only be accessible to the enterprise. However, this was still a great introduction to the multitier architecture despite these simplifications and I look forward to using what I learned here in the future.

[Return to portfolio](https://github.com/zfregin/portfolio)
